A11y microsite (#537)
hms-dbmi/gehlenborglab-website: _teams/accessibility/research-in-biomedical-accessibility.md

---
# make sure to add page to _data/teams.yml

> name: Research in Biomedical Accessibility

Reviewer: To make it consistent with our paper (i.e., biomedical → life sciences).

```suggestion
name: Accessibility in Life Sciences Data Resources
```

team_id: accessibility
active: true

image: a11y-results.png
image_alt: A figure containing three graphs. Graph A shows that 96% of data portals have issues. Graph B shows the percentage of those issues by accessibility categories, with contrast being the most prevalent issue, and label_missing, alt_missing, and label_empty highlighted. Graph C is a pie chart showing that 78.8% of alt text in journals are entirely missing, while 21.3% are uninformative.

publications:
  - lyi-2024-F8FYKQP6

---

> ## Evaluation of Accessibility in Biomedical Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Evaluation of Accessibility in Life Sciences Data Resources
```

Our lab been conducting extensive research evaluating the accessibility of biomedical websites and resources. In this ongoing project, we assessed over 3,000 biomedical data portals and journal websites using accessibility evaluation tools like [WAVE](https://wave.webaim.org) and [Axe](https://www.deque.com/axe/).

## Current Accessibility Status

> Our evaluation revealed that nearly all of the assessed websites (96%) had severe accessibility issues. The most common issue identified was the absence of crucial metadata, such as alternative text for images, which creates significant barriers for users with blindness and low vision (BLV). Without such metadata, it is impossible for BLV users to fully understand the content displayed in biomedical data visualizations (Refer to figure on the top).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our evaluation revealed that nearly all of the assessed websites (96%) had severe accessibility issues. The most common issue identified was the absence of crucial metadata, such as alternative text for images, which creates significant barriers for users with blindness and low vision (BLV). Without such metadata, it is impossible for BLV users to fully understand the content displayed in life sciences data visualizations (Refer to the figure on the top).
```

## Research Aims

> Our primary goal is to improve the accessibility of biomedical resources by identifying the key barriers and developing strategies to address them. Through this work, we aim to ensure that biomedical websites and tools comply with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and are accessible to people with disabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our primary goal is to improve the accessibility of life sciences resources by identifying the key barriers and developing strategies to address them. Through this work, we aim to ensure that biomedical websites and tools comply with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and are accessible to people with disabilities.
```

## Our Contributions
- **Evaluation Results**: We identified a range of accessibility failures, with missing alt texts being one of the most prevalent issues.

> - **Tools Used**: We employed computational accessibility tools such as WAVE and Axe to conduct our analysis.

Reviewer: A bit of revision to highlight the scientific contribution better

```suggestion
- **Mixed-methods Approach**: We employed computational accessibility tools, such as WAVE and Axe, to conduct our analysis at scale, in addition to conducting user evaluation for selected resources.
```

> - **Addressing Gaps**: Our findings highlight the need for improving accessibility across biomedical websites, particularly in providing alternative texts and complying with WCAG.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Addressing Gaps**: Our findings highlight the need for improving accessibility across life sciences websites, particularly in providing alternative texts and complying with WCAG.
```

> ---
> # make sure to add page to _data/teams.yml
> 
> name: Accessibility in Life Sciences Data Resources
> team_id: accessibility
> active: true
> 
> image: a11y-results.png
> image_alt: A figure containing three graphs. Graph A shows that 96% of data portals have issues. Graph B shows the percentage of those issues by accessibility categories, with contrast being the most prevalent issue, and label_missing, alt_missing, and label_empty highlighted. Graph C is a pie chart showing that 78.8% of alt text in journals are entirely missing, while 21.3% are uninformative.
> 
> publications:
>   - lyi-2024-F8FYKQP6
> 
> ---
> 
> ## Evaluation of Accessibility in Life Sciences Data Resources
> 
> Our lab been conducting extensive research evaluating the accessibility of biomedical websites and resources. In this ongoing project, we assessed over 3,000 biomedical data portals and journal websites using accessibility evaluation tools like [WAVE](https://wave.webaim.org) and [Axe](https://www.deque.com/axe/).
> 
> ## Current Accessibility Status
> Our evaluation revealed that nearly all of the assessed websites (96%) had severe accessibility issues. The most common issue identified was the absence of crucial metadata, such as alternative text for images, which creates significant barriers for users with blindness and low vision (BLV). Without such metadata, it is impossible for BLV users to fully understand the content displayed in life sciences data visualizations (Refer to the figure on the top).
> 
> ## Research Aims
> Our primary goal is to improve the accessibility of life sciences resources by identifying the key barriers and developing strategies to address them. Through this work, we aim to ensure that biomedical websites and tools comply with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and are accessible to people with disabilities.
> 
> ## Our Contributions
> - **Evaluation Results**: We identified a range of accessibility failures, with missing alt texts being one of the most prevalent issues.
> - **Mixed-methods Approach**: We employed computational accessibility tools, such as WAVE and Axe, to conduct our analysis at scale, in addition to conducting user evaluation for selected resources.
> - **Addressing Gaps**: Our findings highlight the need for improving accessibility across life sciences websites, particularly in providing alternative texts and complying with WCAG.
> 
> ## Call to Action
> We invite you to participate in this effort. We are looking for feedback and suggestions from the broader scientific and accessibility communities and potential collaborations for academic and non-academic activities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
# make sure to add page to _data/teams.yml

name: Accessibility in Life Sciences Data Resources
team_id: accessibility
active: true

image: a11y-results.png
image_alt: A figure containing three graphs. Graph A shows that 96% of data portals have issues. Graph B shows the percentage of those issues by accessibility categories, with contrast being the most prevalent issue, and label_missing, alt_missing, and label_empty highlighted. Graph C is a pie chart showing that 78.8% of alt text in journals are entirely missing, while 21.3% are uninformative.

publications:
  - lyi-2024-F8FYKQP6

---

## Evaluation of Accessibility in Life Sciences Data Resources

Our lab has been conducting extensive research evaluating the accessibility of life sciences websites and data resources. In this ongoing project, we assessed over 3,000 data portals and journal websites using accessibility evaluation tools, like [WAVE](https://wave.webaim.org) and [Axe](https://www.deque.com/axe/). We also evaluated selected data portals with an actual screen reader users to identify real-world barriers for performing important tasks (e.g., data discovery).

## Current Accessibility Status
Our evaluation revealed that nearly all assessed websites (96%) had severe accessibility issues. The most common issue identified was the absence of crucial metadata, such as alternative text for images, which creates significant barriers for users with blindness and low vision (BLV). Without such metadata, it is impossible for BLV users to fully understand the content displayed in life sciences data visualizations (Refer to the figure on the top).

## Research Aims
Our primary goal is to improve the accessibility of life sciences resources by identifying the key barriers and developing strategies to address them. Through this work, we aim to ensure that life sciences websites and tools comply with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and are accessible to people with disabilities.

## Our Contributions
- **Evaluation Results**: We identified a range of accessibility failures, with missing alt texts being one of the most prevalent issues.
- **Mixed-methods Approach**: We employed computational accessibility tools to conduct our analysis at scale, in addition to conducting user evaluation for selected resources.
- **Addressing Gaps**: Our findings highlight the need for improving accessibility across life sciences websites, particularly in providing alternative texts and complying with WCAG.

## Call to Action
We invite you to participate in this effort. We seek feedback and suggestions from the broader scientific and accessibility communities and potential collaborations for academic and non-academic activities.
```
